# Project-429
6 MW Harangi II Small Hydro Power Project at Energy Development Company Limited 
The proposed project titled under UCR is “6 MW Harangi II Small Hydro Power Project at M/s
Energy Development Company Limited by Energy Advisory Services”, which is a hydroelectric
power project located in Hulugunda Taluk: Somwarpet, District Kodagu, state Karnataka. The project
is an operational activity with continuous reduction of GHG, currently being applied under
“Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR).

The project activity is a renewable power generation activity that incorporates the installation and
operation of One hydro turbine, having aggregated installed capacity of 6 MW in the in Hulugunda Taluk:
Somwarpet, District Kodagu, state Karnataka India. This project is promoted by M/s Energy
Development Company Limited. This project activity is also called as Harangi II Small Hydro Power
Project.

The hydroelectric turbine was Synchronization on 30/08/2010 and declared the Commercial Operation
Date by KPTCL: Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation with whom the Power Purchase Agreement
was concluded.

The project activity aims to harness kinetic energy of water (renewable source) from Harangi river to
generate electricity. As the nature of the hydro project, no fossil fuel is involved for power generation in
the project activity, the electricity produced by the project is directly contributing to climate change
mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere by
displacing an equivalent amount of power at the grid, which would otherwise have been generated from
fossil fuel-based power plants which are connected to the Indian grid system.
The net generated electricity from the project activity is sold to state electricity board through the Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed between the project developer and the HESCOM: Hubli Electricity
Supply Company Limited

In pre-project scenario, electricity delivered to the grid by the project activity would have otherwise been
generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by the addition of new
generation sources in the grid.

Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 6,456MWh/y from
the regional grid, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based gridconnected power plants. The estimated annual average and the total CO2e emission reductions per year,
by the project activity are expected to be around 5,810 tCO2e.
______________
PRIOR HISTORY
__________________
CDM Project 3594 : 6 MW Harangi Phase-II Hydro Power Project in Karnataka, India
______________
Authorized Participants: M/s Energy Development Company Limited

Sectoral scopes	1 : Energy industries (renewable - / non-renewable sources)

Activity Scale	SMALL

Methodologies Used	AMS-I.D. ver. 13 - Grid connected renewable electricity generation

Amount of Reductions	5,154 metric tonnes CO2 equivalent per annum
__________
CDM Registration Date	31 Aug 2010   
________________
CDM Crediting Period	31 Aug 10 - 30 Aug 20 (Fixed)

CDM Monitoring Period: 31 Aug 2010 - 30 Sep 2011 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 8089 CERs

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-173003611-1-1-0-3594  --- Block end: IN-5-173011699-1-1-0-3594
__________________________
